
The MAPL system is the only music standard used in Canada. However, the Canadian Music Creators Coalition (CMC) is currently working to create a new music standard that takes into account more recent developments in the music industry. The proposed new standard, called the Canadian Sound Recording Standard, would include the following elements:

Music: The music score, including the melody, harmony, and instrumentation, must be composed by a Canadian to earn one point.

Artist: At least one of the lead vocalists or instrumentalists performing the music must be Canadian to earn one point.

Performance: The music track must be recorded in Canada to earn one point.

Lyrics: The lyrics must be written by a Canadian to earn one point.

Recording Studio: The recording studio must be located in Canada to earn one point.

The CMC is currently lobbying the CRTC to adopt the Canadian Sound Recording Standard as a new music standard in Canada.

How many music tracks have been certified in Canada?
As of June 1, 2008, the CRTC had certified approximately 14,000 music tracks as Canadian content. The MAPL system has been used by the CRTC since the 1970s to determine the percentage of Canadian content in music tracks.

Can I use the MAPL system to certify my music tracks?
The MAPL system is used by the CRTC to determine the percentage of Canadian content in music tracks. However, the MAPL system is not used by the music industry to certify music tracks. Instead, the music industry uses a point system called the C3 system, which stands for Canadian Content (30%), Composer, and Cost of Production. The C3 system is used to determine the Canadian Content (CANCON) percentage of a music track, which is a requirement for Canadian radio and television broadcasters to play a certain amount of Canadian content.

Under the C3 system, a music track can earn points in each of the three categories, as follows:

Canadian Content: The music track must be at least 30% Canadian to earn one point.

Composer: The music score, including the melody, harmony, and instrumentation, must be composed by a Canadian to earn one point.

Cost of Production: The music track must be recorded in Canada to earn one point.

To be considered a Canadian song for CANCON purposes, a music track must earn at least two points under the C3 system. For example, a track with Canadian lyrics and a Canadian artist would earn two points and meet the minimum requirement for CANCON certification.

What are the different points systems used to certify music tracks in Canada?
The following points systems are used to certify music tracks in Canada:

MAPL system: The MAPL system is used by the CRTC to determine the percentage of Canadian content in music tracks. However, the MAPL system is not used by the music industry to certify music tracks. Instead, the music industry uses a point system called the C3 system, which stands for Canadian Content (30%), Composer, and Cost of Production. The C3 system is used to determine the Canadian Content (CANCON) percentage of a music track, which is a requirement for Canadian radio and television broadcasters to play a certain amount of Canadian content.

C3 system: Under the C3 system, a music track can earn points in each of the three categories, as follows:

Canadian Content: The music track must be at least 30% Canadian to earn one point.

Composer: The music score, including the melody, harmony, and instrumentation, must be composed by a Canadian to earn one point.

Cost of Production: The music track must be recorded in Canada to earn one point.

To be considered a Canadian song for CANCON purposes, a music track must earn at least two points under the C3 system. For example, a track with Canadian lyrics and a Canadian artist would earn two points and meet the minimum requirement for CANCON certification.

How can I get a MAPL certification?
The CRTC has the authority to certify music tracks as Canadian content. To get a MAPL certification, you must submit a music track to the CRTC for evaluation. The CRTC will then determine whether the music track meets the Canadian Content (CANCON) criteria and assign it a percentage rating based on the level of Canadian content.

Who is responsible for the MAPL system?
The CRTC is responsible for the MAPL system, which is used to determine the percentage of Canadian content in music tracks.


Artur Osipov
how can i get a music track certified in canada?
To get a music track certified in Canada, you must submit a music track to the CRTC for evaluation. The CRTC will then determine whether the music track meets the Canadian Content (CANCON) criteria and assign it a percentage rating based on the level of Canadian content